1. What are the three main parts of the CPU?
Control Unit
Arithmetic logical unit (ALU)
Registers

2. Define the PC register
High-speed memory to store temporary result
Next to the CPU

3. Define the IR register
Holds the instructions currently being executed

4. What constitutes a data path?
Data path is formed for registers, the ALU and several buses connecting the pieces

5. List three advantages of microcode over hardware implementation.

- The opportunity to add new instructions at minimal cost
- Ability to fix design deficiencies
- Breaks instructions of its target machine into small steps. Efficient development.

6. How did fast read-only memory help diminish the disadvantage of interpretation over a hardware implementation? 
Interpreters could be run over the control stores to 
diminish the interpretation overhead, since control
stores were faster than conventional RW memory at the
time.

7. What was the new (old?) development in the RISC design?
VLSI Very Large Scale Integration

8. How did the RISC designers justify that their design was faster, even though it took 4 or 5 instructions to
do the equivalent of 1 CISC instruction. 
RISC design instruction are 10 times as fast as CISC because they are not interpreted

9. Main memory speeds approached the speeds of read-only memory. How did this fact help justify the RISC design?
Eliminating the need for an interpreted could free up the overhead and speed up instruction execution.

10. List the five RISC design principles.
- All instruction are directly executed by hardware
- Maximize the rate at which instructions are issued
- Instructions should be easy to decode
- Only loads and stores should reference memory

11. Why do computers use a prefetch buffer?
Because when an instruction was needed it could  usualy be taken from the prefetch buffer
rather than waiting for a memory read to complate.

12. An instruction might take 10 nsec to complete (100 MIPS). Explain how a five-stage pipeline 
could increase the throughput to 500 MIPS. 
If we split 10 nsec into 5 stages of 2 nsec each, then by the time the pipeline is full it will have a 
throughput of 1 instruction every clock-cycle, which is every 2 nsec. This is a 500% increase from every 10 nsec.
Thus, instead of 100 MIPS, it will have 500 MIPS.

13. What type of pipeline did the 486 have?
One five-stage pipeline

14. What type of pipeline did the original Pentium have? 
Two five-stage pipeline

15. What type of pipeline does the Core chip have? 
Superscalar

16. What is meant by a data parallel computer?
Computers that execute highly-regular programs quickly and efficiently in parallel

17. Explain how the book arrived at the number of 512 instructions per second for the Fermi GPU. 
(Warning: the book's explanation might be wrong.)
The GPU contains up to 16 SIMD (SM)
each SM containing 32 SIMD processors
2 threads per cycle
then, from each thread 16 SIMD

16 * 32 = 512

18. Define what a vector register is in a vector processor.
Registers loaded from memory serially in a single instruction to be used for vector operations.

19. How is a vector register loaded?
serially in a single instruction

20. What does it mean to say that the CPUs in a multiprocessor are tightly coupled?
They can communicate faster with eachother than with external CPUs over the a network and 
are partially interdependent

21. Why is there a practical limit to the number of processors that can fit on one chip?
Connecting each CPU to main memory is problematic.

22. What does it mean to say that the CPUs in a multicomputer are loosely coupled?
They are more independet than a tightly coupled multiprocessor. Example;  they have their
own memory and only have to replicate "shared memory" with a network implementation.

23. How is data shared in a multicomputer system?
CPUs send other CPUs messages over the network topology that ideally minimizes avg. message 
transfer latency

24. Explain the difference between Big Endian and Little Endian, in terms of how numbers and strings are stored in memory
In Big Endian bytes in a word start from high order and in Litter Endian from low order.
Example J O H N and N H O J  consecutively.

25. Use an example to demonstrate the difficulty with transforming some data in big endian format to little endian format.
fig 2-12 page 77
0     M I J
4  T  I M S
8  0  0 0 H
12 21 0 0 0
16 4  1 0 0

26. Memory reads are slow. What happens to performance if memory cannot be read prior to when it is needed?
CPU has to spend cycles waiting for memory read to complete, so CPU performance is stucked by memory reads.

27. How can compilers try to avoid CPU stalling?
Using cache, where it is stored the most heavily used memory words

28. In the formula for mean access time, what happens as the hit ratio approaches 1? What happens when the ratio approaches 0?
mean access time = c +(l-h)m
c: cache access time 
m: memory access time
h: hit ratio
As h approaches 1 the access time approaches c and as h approaches 0 a memory reference is needed. 

29. What is meant by a unified cache? 
Instructions and data are stored in the same cache

